HILDUR: Will the report
give final approval
for the glacier hotel project
or not?
STODDART: What if something
was found up there
and we had to protect it?
Your prognosis is now
final stage palliative care.
You can go back
to the mainland, Henry.
Hey. I know you!
Your name's Jason.
JULES: Frank, come
here, he's all better.
(screaming)
♪ The river did come to me ♪
♪ Straight into my arms ♪
♪ I tried to caress it ♪
♪ But it ran
through my fingertips... ♪
♪ Water will keep running,
rivers will turn ♪
♪ Water will keep running
and rivers will turn ♪
♪ Water will keep running,
rivers will turn ♪
♪ Water will keep running
and rivers will turn. ♪
HILDUR: I chose a life of crime
in a town where there's none.
I studied criminal law
on the mainland,
came to Fortitude,
and married a policeman.
(door opens)
And we live
on the one place on earth
we're guaranteed a quiet life.
Our honeymoon was a night
of thrills and magic.
Eric took me up onto
the glacier in a tent--
or more a bivouac, really.
(police car drives by)
And the temperature fell
to minus 30.
So that night,
we saw the most spectacular
Aurora Borealis I'd ever seen.
"The fireworks of the gods,"
as we called it.
The heavens singing.
You can actually hear them,
you know, the Northern Lights,
outside the city.
And now we are building
a hideaway in the ice.
We are building a hotel
hewn into the glacier itself,
where lovers of the wilderness,
lovers of the Northern Lights,
or just lovers
can witness the wildest things
they'll ever see
from the safest place on earth.
I'm quite proud of that line
actually,
so I don't mind if you want
to use it in your brochures.
(scattered laughter)
And here it is.
Excavation scheduled to begin
in two weeks' time,
and in six months,
we'll be ready
for our very first guests.
So thank you, and enjoy.
(applause)
Sheriff Anderssen for you.
Dan?
DAN:
Hildur.
Charlie Stoddart's dead.
What?
I'm sounding the bear warning.
Keep all the delegates
in the building!
(siren wailing)
Bear attack?!
Search the perimeter
of the property--
prints, spoor,
or blood trail.
If you see the bear,
shoot to kill.
(dog barking)
What about him?
Go!
You'll stay
in the back of the car
until the officers return.
You think a bear did this?
For your own safety.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Ripped By mstoll
♪♪
(water running)
(retching)
(breathing heavily)
(dogs barking)
Hey!
The bear trail should lead
from the back of the house.
Don't let the dogs inside.
(heavy rock music playing)
(faintly):
I'm dying of liver cancer!
What?
I'm dying of liver cancer.
Thank you.
Get out of here!
Before you set off
the alarm!
(crowd cheering)
(rock music continues)
(sobbing)
DR. ALLERDYCE:
In the Research Center,
we have equipment
which could...
could significantly improve
Liam's chances of recovery.
Equipment?
Hyperbaric Oxygen Treatment
can increase the viability
of reversibly damaged cells
by preventing hypoxia
and reducing edema.
Um, okay.
If that's what he needs, yes.
It's a research center.
It isn't set up
to treat patients.
It's experimental,
and there are risks.
Well, do you think
you could get Liam in?
We could make
an exception.
I'd need a signed consent.
Hello?
(horn blaring)
I don't expect you
to understand.
If a bear came in the house,
you'd be the first on its list.
Now, I'm going to keep you safe.
I have responsibilities
like you cannot imagine.
It's all right.
I love you.
(dogs barking)
Have you searched
the grounds for the bear?
Yes, of course.
You can't hear them coming,
you know.
Dan?
Oh my God.
Look at the wound pattern,
Margaret.
This wasn't done
by a bear.
Oh...
(breathing deeply)
Hildur.
Oh my Christ, Dan.
Hildur, listen to me.
We have a very serious
problem here.
I don't think
this is a bear attack.
He's alive.
He's still alive!
(ambulance siren blaring)
He's arresting.
Cardiac massage.
Just put as much pressure there
as you can, yes?
Paddles, paddles, paddles!
Charging!
Clear!
(gasping for breath)
Where's Charlie?
What's going on, Dan?
You shouldn't be here.
There's nothing
you can do here, Henry.
Go home.
Let me take care of this.
Petra?
What's happening?
Professor Stoddart's been
attacked and left for dead.
At first, we thought
it might have been a bear.
What?
But now it looks like a murder.
So full forensics.
Murder forensics,
not bear forensics.
It's awful in there.
(dog barking)
Go on, get in.
Hey, Mr. Sutter!
What now?
What's going on?
What are you doing out here?
Looking.
The hell are you
looking for?
You're driving
my dog nuts.
Hmm?
What were you doing
earlier this evening?
What?
Something wrong?
You were doing something
you shouldn't.
(phone vibrating)
Yeah?
Five minutes
while I get my gear.
FRANK: Am I speaking to the same
detective who was out here?
DS Littlejohn, investigated
the Pettigrew death?
No, no, please listen.
Listen, Billy Pettigrew
wasn't eaten by a bear.
He was murdered.
Now Professor Charlie Stoddart
has been murdered as well.
The Governor is responsible.
Her sheriff killed them both.
Hey!
Somebody!
Hello?
Natalie should've
been there too!
He thinks she was invited
to dinner too.
I know where she lives
and I'm on my way.
Find her and bring her in,
Ingrid.
Swabs, clipping, fingerprints.
She's not a suspect, is she?
Ingrid, it's important
we can rule Natalie out.
INGRID:
Okay, I'm on it.
♪♪
Would this be something
you could feed to a rabbit?
Uh-uh.
A human being?
You could feed the rabbit
to the human being
and not bother
buying the aubergine.
That's not an option.
There's a bear in town,
Carrie.
Where's your dad?
He's at work.
Sometimes,
a bear comes into town
and then the police have to
carefully usher him out again.
There's 3,000 of them
and 713 of us,
so I tell you, if those bears
ever get organized...
(crowd laughing)
Excuse me.
So, if you'll please
gather round.
Governor.
I've just spoken
to Dr. Allerdyce.
It was too late to save him.
Charlie Stoddart died
on the operating table
five minutes ago.
Governor Odegard,
I was hoping that we'd meet your
husband before we left tomorrow.
Is that going to be
a possibility?
No, I'm sorry,
Eric's indisposed.
Nothing too serious,
I hope.
No, he stood in a bear trap,
but he'll be fine.
(beeping)
What?
The pulse.
Yes?
It's right here.
Yes.
When you found him, you felt
for a pulse, didn't you?
Yes.
Here, at his throat.
And his wrist.
Here.
Yes.
You looked
into the man's eyes,
face to face,
like this.
(nervously):
Yes.
Nothing.
There was nothing.
He was dead when I found him.
No pulse,
no pupil response.
He was dead.
You're sure?
Yes, I'm sure.
(buzzing)
(wind whistling)
ALLERDYCE:
Okay, gently.
Connected.
Mom?
Hey, kiddo, I'm here.
You're going to be
all right.
The doctor's looking
after everything, okay?
Mom, where is this?
Where am I?
Shh, you stay down.
Don't worry.
Hold him down.
Liam, this isn't
going to hurt.
It's gonna be all right.
Move out of the way, please.
(door thuds closed)
(machine whirring and beeping)
(shattering)
Natalie?
It's me!
It's Ingrid!
(wind whistling)
♪♪
Dan, Natalie isn't home.
Her snowmobile is gone,
and it looks like she's
packed clothes for a trip.
She might have done a runner.
Groups of four!
Line up and listen
to Chief Anderssen.
Fast as we can now!
Come on, fast as we can!
Can we handle this?
Or you?
Do we have the resources,
or should I request assistance
from the mainland?
I can handle this.
You were drinking.
Hildur, I was off duty.
If the murder team come over
from the mainland,
they'll be looking at you,
Hildur, won't they?
Charlie wouldn't give you
the glacier.
DAN:
Our missing girl's name
is Natalie Yelburton.
29 years old.
You all have her picture.
Many of you know her.
Friends of hers.
Before you leave here,
you must understand this:
Natalie Yelburton
could be a victim--
missing, lost, abducted.
You have to ask yourself
the question:
if she is worth the risk
to each one of you
that this search entails.
Myself, my team,
we have a job to do.
We signed up for this.
All of you,
look out for one another.
Okay, let's go!
Come on!
Let's go!
Move it out!
Hello?
Anybody?
I'm looking for Chief
Superintendent Dan Anderssen!
I have brought back
your fucking rifle!
Hello!
Dan Anderssen!
(pressing keyboard keys)
Motherfucker.
(machine beeping and whirring)
JULES:
I just thought you should know
they've got a treatment
for frostbite
at the research center,
and I've brought Liam here.
I just thought you should know.
(distant moaning)
Hello?
(moaning)
Hello, is everything okay?
(faint beeping)
(gasps)
(snorting and groaning)
WOMAN:
Traditionally, they used wee.
Old lady's urine.
Oh, God, you've got
to be kidding me.
But nowadays,
it's fermented in ammonia.
Well, that's progress.
You have to wash the fish
thoroughly in fresh water
before you cook it,
or you could burn
your esophagus.
I bet.
So do you cook this, um...
Lutefiske.
For your husband?
Once.
He wouldn't eat it.
So what do you do?
Wait, let me guess.
Travel industry?
You know, the one thing
that I don't understand
about Fortitude
is how the people there
endure the dark months.
I mean, the isolation,
the cold,
the desolation,
the loneliness.
Oh, it's never lonely.
No?
Well, the people
who live there,
most of them share
an understanding.
What about?
You look out
for the wind chimes.
Okey-dokey.
VINCENT:
Am I going to have a lawyer?
You haven't been charged,
only arrested,
so you're not entitled
to a lawyer
unless or until
you are charged.
What if I need legal help?
I can give you any legal advice
you might require.
I thought you said
you were the governor.
I'm also
a trained lawyer,
and the chief of police
on Fortitude.
You two have it all sewn up.
(camera whirring)
Sound?
You need to record
all of this.
I know!
Is it recording?
I think it's recording.
So why can't we hear
what they're saying?
I don't know, I'm not
a fucking computer expert.
HILDUR: Is that how you got
that head wound there?
Okay.
So is it recording?
VINCENT:
I slipped...
(audio cuts out)
Now we can't hear
what they're saying again.
Ingrid, this is
crucial evidence.
It better be recording.
Where's the manual?
It is recording.
I don't know.
I think it might
still be recording,
we just can't hear it
out of these stupid speakers.
I hope so.
Red light, red light,
red light.
DAN: What did you think
you and the Professor
were going to talk about?
About the work I was doing here
and at university, and...
Actually, he mentioned something
about an environmental report
that he had written.
He was going to talk to me
and Natalie about it.
But I don't know
apart from that.
Thank you.
It's not him, is it?
No.
The boy was kneeling
on top of him
and there wasn't a speck of
Charlie's blood on him anywhere.
But until we have
somebody else in custody,
I'm not letting him walk.
It'll create panic,
like we've lost control.
I wasn't going to let him go.
And what about the girl,
Natalie?
She's not at home.
Her snowmobile's missing.
Yeah.
Gotta find her.
Oh!
(laughing)
How long?
They can't say yet.
They have to allow as much
tissue to recover as possible
before they can make
any decisions.
About amputation?
Yeah.
Where were you?
Where did you go?
Jules, listen.
I know what
you're thinking.
I don't know what to tell you.
I don't know what to say.
I don't know what happened.
I think what happened is
you went out to be
with another woman.
Is that right?
Listen, Jules...
Oh, my God, you were.
Go.
She can have you.
Just go.
(door opens)
Sheriff.
Elena.
Where were you
last night?
What?
Did you meet anyone
last night?
No.
Do you know
Charlie Stoddart?
The man who was killed?
Yes.
Did you know him?
(sighs)
No.
I didn't know him at all.
Okay.
Would you like a drink?
Danny.
HILDUR: How did London
get the news so quickly?
Look, I have 100% confidence
in the Fortitude Police,
but if London are kind enough
to offer us this level
of assistance and experience,
then obviously...
Every consideration.
Yes, thank you.
(foghorn blaring)
(tires crunching snow)
Up here?
Yes.
Do you need a hand?
No, I'm good, thank you.
Great.
Chief Superintendent
Dan Anderssen,
let me introduce Detective
Chief Inspector Eugene Morton.
Hi, Gene.
Dan.
Here, I have a...
This is a commission
rogatory.
It's a cross-border memorandum
of understanding
between Oslo and London
that formalizes my role
as a representative
for the interests
of the family
of the murder victim.
Right.
Ever since they opened
the research center,
there's been this accord.
Not with me.
DCI Morton is
a forensic expert.
He can provide invaluable
analytical skills--
skills and experience
he acquired
working with the FBI.
We have skills.
I'm sure you do.
And also with the International
Aviation Authorities
Air Crash...
...Investigation Unit.
Right.
We don't have
an air crash.
(speaking Norwegian):
I've told DCI Morton
that we will extend him
every consideration.
All right,
if you'll excuse me.
Yeah.
I've never felt cold like this.
My ears actually hurt.
(chuckles)
And I've never seen
a polar bear.
I've never eaten lutefiske.
What?
Lutefiske.
What about it?
I've never eaten it.
I've never tried it.
But there's always a first time
for everything.
And you've never conducted
a murder investigation.
All right, I'll make
a deal with you,
Chief Superintendent Anderssen.
If I'm right.
I'll leave
in a day or two,
but if I'm wrong.
I'll be on the next plane
back to London,
no questions asked,
no recriminations.
What are you talking about?
Outside Professor
Stoddart's house.
I bet there are wind chimes.
You know, in the home counties,
they have a similar signal.
Pampas grass in the garden
means that swingers
live there.
(chimes rattling)
That's not something we have
in Fortitude.
What, sexual infidelity?
Pampas grass.
How did the dog die?
I shot it.
Do you have another one
of those suits I can use?
No.
(wind whistling,
chimes jangling)
Officer?
(knocking)
DCI Morton.
Hi.
Hi, London Met.
I'm here to assist
with the investigation.
Chief Anderssen wanted you
to take me down to the station
straight away.
Really?
Yeah.
Chief Anderssen said that?
Yeah, yeah.
He also said that
you're the best officer
to bring me up to speed.
Shall we?
Sure.
Okay.
Just straight down there.
You could not have been
more helpful, thank you.
My pleasure, sir.
Hi, I'm meeting
Trish Stoddart in...
She's in Dan's office.
Yes, good, thank you.
(knocking lightly)
Oh!
So who are you really, then?
Let me introduce myself
formally, Trish.
I'm Detective Inspector Morton
of the Metropolitan Police.
But you're an American.
Yes.
So can you tell me
what the hell is going on?
Well, I hope so.
I mean, that's why I'm here,
to find out what's going on
and to look out for your best
interests in the investigation.
What investigation?
Nobody's told you?
Told what?
I've been told to wait.
Dan needed
to speak to me.
(sighs)
Okay.
Well, um...
Your husband Charlie is dead.
What?
Somebody or something
assaulted your husband
in your home.
At any rate,
while they were
searching the premises,
it turns out your husband
was still alive,
unbeknownst to them.
TRISH:
He was left?
MORTON:
Yes.
For how long?
An hour.
And as soon as they found out,
they called an ambulance,
they got him to the hospital,
but it was too late.
And he died.
Dan's here to talk to you
about it now.
I'm very sorry.
I thought you knew.
(crying)
I think we can rule out
the grieving widow.
Look, I need a room.
Um...
Please, can you just
get me a room?
I've messed everything up.
I heard something
happened to Liam.
Is he being flown out?
It's much worse than that.
Liam is too sick
to be moved.
Oh.
But look, just... please
just give me a room.
We can talk
about this after.
There are no rooms.
(sighs)
You can use my room.
Hi.
Starting without me?
Who are you?
DCI Morton.
From London?
Mm-hmm.
30 degrees softens up the dried
blood just about right,
and you don't want to use
too much pressure,
because you want to make sure
not to wash away
any secondary
contaminants.
Are you okay
taking notes?
So you're here to help?
That's right.
From London?
Mm-hmm.
But he was only declared dead
12 hours ago.
Mm-hmm.
So...
So how could you have
got here from London
to help with the post-mortem
if you would have had to leave
when he was still alive?
"If you would have had
to leave"
Your English is very good.
Okay, it's already apparent
that more than one
bladed implement was used
in the attack.
The striations here
in the ribs and the sternum
suggest a cleaver,
these long incisions here
are some sort of
stabbing implement,
and then these
triangular punctures
that are all over
the torso,
those suggest a third
assailant, and maybe--
maybe-- that this is some kind
of ritualistic murder.
Ritualistic murder?
What kind of ritualistic murder
would you say involves
a potato peeler?
Hmm?
Get out of here.
I can't do that.
Shall I continue with the
post-mortem examination, boss?
Please, Petra.
Actually, let me
take you through it
from the very beginning.
With this degree of entry,
cardiac output would be impaired
and blood flow
to and from the brain
severely compromised,
and this would mean that
the pulse at the victim's throat
would be barely perceptible.
Pupil dilation response
was next to zero,
and so he appeared dead.
(door closes)
Hildy.
(exhales deeply)
What's the matter?
What, no one's told you?
Told me what?
Charlie Stoddart's
been murdered.
What?
I saw him on the floor,
and he was...
He was all...
(crying):
He was completely split open.
Come here.
(sobbing)
That's terrible.
Jesus Christ!
I know who did it!
NATALIE:
Where are your cigarettes?
MAN:
Right there.
Where?
They're not in your jeans.
MAN:
Try my jacket.
Hey, what the hell is this?
That's mine.
DRIVER: They've got a man in
custody, but they're still looking.
This Professor's chest
was hacked open.
Imagine that.
(passengers murmuring)
Jason.
Jason, pick up, Jason.
For Christ's sake, Jason,
what have you done?
CELIA: You know that
Jason isn't capable
of doing anything like that.
DAN:
Then I have to speak to him.
You shoot to stop,
just like you would a bear.
FRANK: I should have been
there, but I was with you.
CHARLIE: Trish, we might have
found something incredible.
Something that's going to cause
a hell of a lot of trouble.
Is this what got him killed?
VINCENT: He was already
inside the house.
Dan was already there?
Yes.
Ripped By mstoll
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org